>> Kyle: All right, let's talk
about the solution for exercise 7.
As I said in the set-up, what we wanna do
is take this project factory function and
turn it into a project constructor class,
whatever you wanna call it in JavaScript.
So let's look at how we might do that.
We're gonna start by still adding
a Project function now, but
you'll notice that I need to
prepend everything with this.
Because I'm gonna be setting these
properties directly on the instance
of this Project class, if you will.
So I'm gonna be setting projectId,
description, work, and time.
All those public
properties on an instance.
And I don't need to include
any functions in some closure,
I'm gonna add them
directly to the prototype.
So here, I have Project.prototype.getId,
Project prototype.getDescription,
getTime, addWork, getWorkEntryCount,
and getWorkEntryLocation.
So all the functions we had before,
but now they're on the prototype.
And any place where I was
referencing a variable lexically,
I now have a this dot in front of it.
>> Kyle: And
having a this dot in front of it
allows me to access that context for
each individual instance.
>> Kyle: To
use this new project class,
>> Kyle: We call new
in front of the capital P project
function like we do on line 208.
Otherwise, from the outside world that is,
the rest of the code inside of app and
inside of UI.
From their perspective, the project
object, it doesn't matter how we got it.
Because they still call methods on it and
they still refer to it.
>> Speaker 2: This
might not be a quick answer.
>> Kyle: When
is customizing something
like this a good idea?
A good,
because you could do all this without
going down this route.
>> Speaker 3: What do you mean I
could do it without going down this route?
>> Kyle: How would you do it
without going down this route?
>> Speaker 3: The same way we've done it
before in the sense of just-
>> Kyle: With the module pattern?
>> Speaker 3: The module, or even just
creating some kind of, I don't know.
>> Speaker 3: Just getting
those methods somewhere, bringing them in.
>> Kyle: Okay, so you're asking,
what's the benefit of doing the prototype
style over the module style?
>> Speaker 3: Or yeah, or-
>> Kyle: We already talked about why
modules over just the project entry data.
That was exercise 5c when
we switched to having
the project as its own entity.
That gave us a set of APIs to refer to,
which cleaned up a lot of that code
logic that was all mixed together.
So that part, I think,
we've already probably addressed.
But the more important question to the
current moment is why would we do this?
If we already had
a working module package,
why would we go with the prototype style?
To be quite honest with you and
to be quite blunt,
I don't have any answer to that question.
That's kind of my point,
is that we have been attempting to do
this prototype oriented code for 20 years,
and I don't think it buys us anything.
I just think it creates unnecessary added
complexity.
>> Speaker 3: Okay,
that had been my opinion just
cuz I'd ran into it once.
Took me a long time to figure it out.
>> Kyle: But
some people in the face of complexity
say I need more complexity,
to deal with the complexity
that I already have.
Some people like myself when you see
complexity I try to take a step back and
say how do I do this more simply.
When people are faced with these kinds of
complexities, what many people have done
is they go invent whole frameworks around
these things to do all these stuff for
them.
>> Kyle: I think it
comes from the mindset of classes
work really well in my C++ code.
I wanna do the exact same
class design in JavaScript,
I'm really frustrated the JavaScript
doesn't do classes the same way.
Let me invent some other thing to
put on top of it, to duct tape it so
that it looks right.
>> Kyle: Yes?
>> Speaker 4: So with this approach,
there is no way to preserve encapsulation,
right?
>> Kyle: Yes,
that's definitely a trade off here.
I was gonna get to that.
There is no encapsulation at this point,
is there?
Everything's a public property
on the object instance.
Now some people like the fact
that it's all publicly available.
Cuz now things are easier to test and
maybe it's a little bit more flexible.
But now we've lost the ability
to encapsulation, so
that is definitely a trade
off with this style of code.
If you put stuff disoriented, and
you put it on a public object prototype,
it's all hanging out there for
anybody to see and
mess with.
>> Kyle: So that's kind of why
I still like modules a lot.
>> Speaker 5: But
you can get encapsulation if you
put this inside of a module and
you export the project function.
>> Kyle: So the problem with going that
route, when you try to mix the module
pattern with the prototype style pattern.
In theory it sounds great, and
I promise you, I have tried it so
many times I've lost count.
Many others have tried.
Doug Crockford has a pattern
that he is espousing these days,
where he claims to use closure along
with objects and other stuff like that.
There's just a flat out fact that we're
never gonna be able to get around,
which is that the prototype system and
the lexical system do not cross over.
So if you go to all the trouble to create
your closure inside of your factory, or
whatever, and you just export this project
function, that'll work for one instance.
But now you're not gonna be able to
have multiple functions sharing across,
I mean have a function shared
across multiple instances.
No matter what you do,
I mean you can try it if you want, but
you can take my word for
it, cuz I've tried.
No matter what you do, you're gonna end
up creating Frankenstein code that just
doesn't actually get any better.
My best advice to you is either
do prototype style code or
do module style code.
Don't try to mix them in
the same piece of code.
Cuz if you mix them it's gonna
end up like Frankenstein.
>> Kyle: But the response,
really to the original question was, the
real response is, we do that because we're
enamored with the class pattern that seems
to get us closer to the class pattern.